Operating System
    communication between OS and hardware
    manage discs/disks and files
    access devices
    manage memory
    format the output

    Applications
        Software used to accomplish tasks
            word processor, spreadsheet, email,
        Compiled for particular OS version 32/64
        Requests OS support for hardware access
         shares code from OS
         DLL files
         reduces duplication of common code required for execution

    Drivers
        instructs OS how to access hardware
        must be compatible with a particular version
        peripherals - printers, scanners
        I/O adapter cards, video, nic

    Important Operatin System Terms
    version - revision of software. support new technologies. 32 or 64.
    source code - defines how the software functions. Open - modifications are allowed by anyone. Closed - only developer allowed to edit code.
    shell - program that runs on top of the OS. provides additional features like desktop menus.
    GUI - Displays objects (icons) used for navigation. supports mouse and touch screen input.
    network - physical grouping of two or more connected computers. Locigal connection, sharing of information and resources. 
    multitasking - preemptive versus cooperative (nonpreemptive); obsolete
    multithreading - ability of the application to have multiple requests in to the procesor at one time.
    ARM Advanced RISC Machine processors - use a 'reduced instruction set computing' instruction set commonly found on tablet and phone provessorys.

Opeating System Life Cycle
    Alpha - preview of operating systems first draft. common in open-source development. uncommon for corporate-based OS (proprietary software)
    Beta -  patching discovered bugs in the second draft of OS. look for missing features/ new bugs. solocits administrators trial run participation to confirm corrective modifications were effective.
    Release Candidate - RTM, corrective actions and testing completed. Administrators urged to install and use it to assist in developing enhancements to the OS.
    Current - present-day relase of operating system. development of its future version. slated as one to two year concurrent process.
    Service Pack - implement major revisions. milestone in operating systems life cycle inclused newor revised major features, security and functional patches.
    mainstream support - hot fixes is immediate installation of critical patch. security updates seals discovered vulnerabliities. updated features, general maintenance. scheduled period support. developers timeline of programmed support. expiration of support.
    Extended support - LTS long term support. limited support, critical security updates, no provision for hot fixes or feature updates.

Minimum System Requirements
    determine hardware compatibility

    Task View
    displays all open windows

    Universal Windows Program
    runs on all Windows 10 devices

    Cortana
    digital assistant for Windows, sux a lot

    Spotlight
    search feature displays. lock screen picture

    Snap assist
    snap windows to the side of the screen

    Windows Hello
    biometric authentication

Special Features of Windows
    Domain-joined - alow for centralized authentication, administration and auditing of user and computer accounts through Active Directory.

    Group Policy - allows administrators to configure and manage computers and users in a domain environment.

    Workgroups - computers that are not domain-joined. no centralized authentication, administration and auditing of user and computer.

    AppLocker - restricts access to applications.

    Remote desktop - allows users to connect to a remote computer and access its resources.

    BitLocker - encrypts data on hard drive.

    BranchCache - caches files on local network to reduce network traffic.

    DirectAccess - allows users to connect to a remote network without a VPN.