Task Manager Overview
    terminate unresponsive applications
    ctrl-alt-del

    ctrl-shift-escape

    Processes - lets you see which taks are open on the machine.

    Details - gives you more detail than the processes tab.

    Priority - low, below normal, normal, above mormal. high, realtime.

    Services - lists the name of each running sercice as well as the process ID associated with it and its description, status and group.

    Performance - CPU usage %, a graphical display of CPU history, number of processes and graphical display of physical memory. 

    Users - username, status, CPU usage, memory usage, disk usage, and network usage.

    Startup - the list of names of services confitures to begin at startup, publisher status and start up.

Microsoft Management Console (MMC)
    a tool that allows you to create a custom console that contains the tools you need to manage your applications.

    Computer Management - can manage all the services running on a computer in addition to device manager.

     Event Viewer - a link to the tool that allows you to view application error logs, security audit records and system errors.

     Shared Folders - allows you to manage all your computers shared folders.

     Local Users and Groups -  allows you to create and manage local user and group accounts. 

     Preformance - show you how system hardware is performing. and alerts you if system performance goes under a threshold that you set.

     Device Manger - allows you to manage hardware devices and perform tasks such as updating drivers, disabling devices and uninstalling devices.

    Disk Management - snap in is used to view disk in formation like volumes configured on the physical disk and the filesystems that are formatted on te volume.

    Task Scheduler - allows you to configure an application to run automatically or at any regular interval.

    Certificate Manager - is used to view and manage certificates used by the web browser and the operating system.

    Group Policy Editor - allows you to edit the local Group Policy for the operating system.

    System Configuration - determines how windows 10/11 starts up.
        Normal - loads all drivers and services.
        Diagnostic - Load basic devices and services.
        Selective - check the box for options.

    System Information - extensive list of settings used on the system. run 'msinfo32.exe 
        Systam Summary
        Hardware Resources
        Components
        Software Environment 

    Resource Monitor - indicates how resources are being utilized. run resmon.exe 

    Disc Cleanup - free up hard drive space. run 'cleanmgr.exe'

    Control Panel - Windows + R
    
Applets
    Internet Options Applet - brings up the Internet Properties dialogue box. Configure the browser environment for Internet Explorer 11 and specify sich things as the programs used to work with files found online.

    File Explorer Applet - you can change the default opening pane for File Explorere. Has a quick access option.

    System Applet - will open the Systems App to the About screen.
        Network Identification

        Device Manager - 

        Hardware - tools to change how the hardware is used.
        
        User Profiles - info about the settings and preferences of a user.

        Environmental Variables - User: settings for individual user only. System: set all users one the machine.

        Startup and Recovery - what to do during system startup and hwat to do in case of unexpected system shutdown.

        Performance - set the size of your virtual memory and how the syystem handles the allocation of processor time.

    
        System Protection - lets you enable/disable and configure the System Resore feature.

        Remote - enable/disable Remote Assistance and Remote Desktop. RA permits people to access the system in response to requests issued by the local user using the Windows Remote Assistance tool. RD

        Computer name - define in a workgroup or domain environment.

        Advanced - 

        User Accounts - allows you to view and create accounts for the windows operating system.

        Power Options - allows you to choose a power plan of Balanced, Power Saver, or High Performance.

Windows settings

    Time and Language - allows you to change settings related to the date and time shwon in windows 10/11.

    Update and Security - all settings related to Windows upadtes and security.

    Personalization - change display settings in the personalization screen.

    Apps - replace the Program and Features Control Panel. Allows you to change the source of apps in relation to the microsoft store.

    Privacy - allows you to control all your privacy concerns with windows 10/11.

    System - allows you to change a multitude of settings that pertaint othe operating system.

    Devices -  allows you to view, control an dconfigure all devices connecgted to the PC.

    Network & Internet -  view and control network settings for windows as well as internet settings.

    Gaming - congtrol how gaming is performed on windows 10/11.

    Accounts - view and configure all the settings fo ryour user accounts as well as other accounts on the operating system.

The Windows Registry
    Centralized database that contains environmental settings for your programs. Also contains registration information to know what filename extensions are associated with which applications.

    Registry Hives = REGEDIT
        HKEY-CLASSSES_ROOT - includes information about which filename extensions map to particular applications

        HKEY_CURRENT_USER - holds all configuration information specific to a particular user, such as their desktop settings and history information.

        HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE - includes nearly all configuration information about the actual computer hardware and software.

        HKEY_USERS - includes information about all users who have logged into the system.
        
        HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG - provides quick access to a number of commonly needed keys that are otherwise buried deep in the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE. 

Disk Management filesystems
    File Allocation Table - FAT for the file table used to keep track of where files are within the system.

    Virtual FAT - an extension of FAT. 255 characters. Created 2 names for each file. new and old.

    FAT32 - allows for 32-bit cluster addresssing, which provides for a maximum partition size of 2TB.

    New Technology Filesystem - an advanced filesystem. Individual file security encryption and compression, disk quotas, and RAID support.

    Compact Disc File System - filesystem of choice for CD media.

    ExFAT - for flash drives where NTFS cannot be used because of overhead and FAT32 is not acceptable due to filesystem limitations.

    Network File System - widely used in UNIX and Linux due to its journaling capabilities.

    Extended File System - ext3 became the default system for many distributions of Linux due to  its journaling capabilities. Enhancements were added to create ext4, which is used with Android andother operating systems.

    Hierarchial File System - filesystem developed by Apple for the Mac OS.
    
    Apple File System - proprietary filesystem that was developed by Apple to replae HFS and HFS+.

    Swap Partition - found only within Linux and UNIX installations are the equivalent of the page file (pagefile.sys) in windows, except that they are their own partition type. They are used fo rvirtual memory when the physical memory is exhausted.

Three Partition Styles
    Basic Disks - Master Boot Record (MBR) is the standard BIOS partitioin table used and predates GPT. MBR disk storage can have a maximum of four primary partitions or three primary partitions and one exteded partition containing multiple logical partitions, for a maximum of 26 logical partitions.

    GPT Disks - GUID Partition Tables is the current partition table specification used with Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) BIOS. GPT partition tables allocate 64-bit logical block addressing for larger partitionss, if you need to create partitions 2TB or larger, it is required. AGPT disk can containd up to 128 primary partitions.

    Dynamic Disks -  Are proprietary to Windows OS. Can contain up to 2000 columes. All disks installe dinthe operating system contain an identical 1mb database that describes all the other disks installed. The true benefit of this 1mb database is moving fault-tolerant disks to another Windows operating system.

    Features and Functions
        Initializing Disks - allows the LDM (Logical Disk Management) to recognize the disk.
        Mounting Partitions - once a volume is created, you need to make it available to the operating system for use.
        Extending Partitions - if you ever fill up your drive and need a bigger one, extending partitions adds space to a virtual disk.
        Shringking Parititons - when an installation is not using a fraction of the physical disk storage another partition is required. 
        Adding Drives - hot swap without turning it off. when a disk is added to the operating system the OS eeds to know it.
        Adding Arrays - arrays of disks are multiple disks working together for a specific purpose.