Physical Security Concepts
    Access Controle Vestibule - aka mantrap, helps to prevent nonauthorized users from tailgaiting. ACV is a small room that has two controlled doors. one door opens for you, let in, closed and then the next door opens. Prevents unauthorized access to secure areas.

    Badge Reader - Identification badges used for proof of access. for entry to restricted areas. Creates and electronic audit.
        Photo ID
        Magnetic Strip or RFID
    
    Video Surveillance - backbone of physical security. fixed and pan-tilt-zoom. PTZ cameras used to scan a larger area, but an intruder could possibly elude fom being recorded
    CCTV - closed circuit television. Coaxial Cable but limited to 100m segments.
    Ethernet is most common on new installations, exceeds limitations of CCTV. Network Video Recorder (NVR) is a server function. Seperate LAN segment.

    Motion Sensor
        Sensor Types

        Passive infrared tracks zones of infrared radiation signature. Affordable and most commonly used.

        Microwave Detector is similar in appearance to PIR sensorys without a reflectife front panel. Costly an dsuscpetigle to external interference.

        Vibrations sensors are seismic sensors. detect earth tremors. used in physial security.

    Alarm System - illegal access, commonly used to detect breakins. 

    door locks - tumbler and key. mechanical or electronical.

    Concepts
        Perimiter Security
        Security Guards
        Fences
        Bollards
        Motion sensors
        Alarm System
        Door locks
        Equipment Locks

    Security for staff, specifying who is aurthorized to access what. equipment used to process and store sensitive data.

    Key fobs use RFID for close proximity.

    RFID badges operate at a 125kHz. 

Logical Security

    Principle of least privilege - restricts users permissions. assign permissions appropriate for job roles. to enable users to complete their assigned tasks. Types of permission for least privilege, read only, write, list folder contents.

    Access control lists - control network traffic and applications. uses condition-based actions (defauld action when a condidtion is not met). Default sction - deny traffic from accessing network resources.
    
    Multifactor authentication
    Email
    Hard and Soft Token
    Voice Call
    Authenticator Application

    Authentication Factors
    Something you know
        Password or Pin
            increase password strength with complexity

    Mobile Device Management
        Mobile workforce and telecommuting
            job tasks performed abroad and from home
        Routine use of mobile devices
            laptops, tablets and smartphones
                company issued or personally owned
        Organizations network resources
            remotely accessible over the internet
                from the companys LAN or via cloud services.

        Requires policies to govern their use.
            when accessingnetwork resource remotely
                specifically with personally owened devices
        MDN Software
            Dictates BYOD pollicy on specific issues
                employee terminations, lost device, password use.
                primarily to protect company data
        Scaleable directory service for objects
            includes printers, users, and computers
        Uses LDAP (389) to look up objects
            Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
        Does not authenticate
            uses kerberos to authenticate users
        
        Domain
            Authentication throught domain access Token
            Keys for various resource ACLs (locks)
            Authentication agains AD domain
                key issued to individual users
                key issued from users group membership
            User access of file secured with ACL
                Access granted when token and credentials match

        Ourganizational Units (OUs)
            organizes objects into respective security groups. Allows set of policies be applied to objects.

            GPO assigns those policies and we enforce those policies with GPupdate gpforce.

    Malware
        software written wtih malicious intent 
        often referred to as various
            distinct difference from Malware
        Variety of malware forms
            covert cryptomining
            web search redirection
            adware, spyware and ransomware

    Ransomware
        Form of extortion
        Establishes control of a computers
            hard drive encryption
            manipulating user credentials
        Relinquishes control in exchange for payment
            hands over code to overide restrictions.
        Cyrptolocker
            world wide attacks on healthcare faciliteis
            held patient records for ransomware
            in exchange for bitcoin payment to third-party
        Mitigation through compliance
            Maintain updates of antimalware definitions
            Install OS patches as they become available

    Trojan
        Disguises itself as a legitimate program
        Included as part of an installation program
            Creates a backdoor or replaces a valid program
        Able to remain undetected for years
            While compromising security measures
        Port scan may detect its existence
            unsupported TCP or UDP port opened by an application can be determined
        Best preventive emeasure
            perform backups
            before and after installing new software or OS
            Reinstall original version of program 
                if suspect presence of Trojan horse after the installation of programs updated version
        
        Keyloggers
            Software used to record keystrokes
                Initially used as a learning tool
                Presently misused to attain credentials and Principle
                Programmed to send collected information
                To a remote host
            Uncommon hardware variation
                dongle situated between keyboard and PC
                Collected data manually transferred from dongle
        
        Rootkits
            Robust type of malware
                permanently acquires admin-level rights
                Infects the root of the operating System
            Hides its presence
                manipulating function calls to the OS and filtering information normally viewed
                network connections undetected by Netstat
                masks its own execution of processes
                not indicated on Task Manager
            Targetedsystems
                non-compliant systems
                antivitus and antispyware definitions out-of-date

    Types of Viruses
        Armoured - designed to make itself difficult to detect or analyze.

        Boot Sector - infects the Master Boot Record of a hard disk. It loads when the computer boots and can re-infect an operating system.

        Companion - attatches itself to legitimate programs and then creates a program within a different filename extension.

        Macro - exploits the enhancements made to many application programs.

        Multipartite - attacks in many ways. It may attempt to infect your boot sector, infefct all your executable files and destroy your application files.

        Phage - alters programs and databases, the only way to remove this virus is to reinstall the programs that are infected.

        Polymorphic Virus - chang form to avoid detection. They attack your system, display a message on your computer and delete files on your system.

        Retrovirus - bypasses the antivirus software installed on a computer. Anti-antivirus.

        Stealth Virus - attemps to avoid detection by masking itself from applications. It may attach itself to teh boot sector of a hard drive.

    Botnet - lies dormant and awaits a command from a command-and-control server.
    Worms - can reproduce itself, self-contained, and doesnt need a host application to be transported.

    Windows Recovery Mode - provides multiple functionality. Recover system from a security threat.
    Most useful function is Reset This PC - it refreshes entire system keeping data files intact. Or starting over which reinstalls the operating system.

    End-User Education - deemed the best in security.

    Software Firewalls
        an operating systems protective function.
            prevents malicious intrusion from the internet
            Windows Defender Firewalls
                Default settings
                    Block all inbound traffic to prevent unknown software from infecting a network
                    Allow outbound traffic - users are expected to comply with compnay policy.
        Advanced Security Settings
            for more detailed settings exceptions tothe 'block all incoming' rule.

    Social Engineering
        Process of acquiring information of a network infrastructure to gain access. Attain private information (business or personal). User credentials, PII, PHI, credit-card number.
        Vatious social engineering tactics
        primarily based on exploiting someones trust. Phishing, shoulder surfing, tailgating and impersonation.
        Dumpster diving
        Evil  twin on wireless - intercept traffic, rerout it, push them to bad sites.

        phishing - attempt to attain information using email. Try to trick you into clicking on the link.

        whaling for higher level employees, executives, presidents, CEO, COO, CFO.

        Spear fishsing - exploit relationships though inmersonation

        Shoulder Surfing - observing someone enter private information like login, password pins. bank info, credit cards,

        Tailgating - entry security measures easily bypassed. exploiting someones curteous behavior.

        Dumpster Diving - sifting throug trash bisn and receptacles, looking to find written and printed info.

        Evil Twin - phishing attack over wifi. spoofing an organizations wireless network. Spoofed SSID seems similar at a glance - radiates a stronger signal than the ligit SSID. Places evil twin SSID at top of available wifi list.

        Mitigation techniques - shoulder surfing. awareness of the surrounding area. Ensure unknown persons view is obstructed as access information is being entered.

    Denial of Service
        launched to disrupt company services (recieved and delivered)
        overload servers with false requests - unable to satisfy valid client requests.
        
    
    DoS Types   
            Reflective - indirect attack from a third-party server. Unintentionally executed. Threat agent exploits a third party server, sends packets to server with victims IP address, server responds back to victim, sends unrequested data tothe targeted computer. ICMP-based smurf attack. targets resources like CPU and memory are consumed. Internet Control Message Protocol.
            
            Amplififed - Variation of the reflective DoS attack. Targeted computer is flooded with responses. Exploited servers like DNS, multiple queries produces parrage of responses. NTP Network Time Protocol. Pool of servers available on the internet. Single host query produces multiple responses.
            
            Distributed -  Reflective and amplified combined. Most commonly launched Dos attacks. From multible netbots, possibly millions of hosts controlled remotely. Difficult to isolate sources of Dos attacks.
            
            Zero-Day Attacks -  as software vulnerabilities are discovered by its developer doe to issues reported by users. And patches are not readily available, typical turn-around is 1-2 days. Only option to ward offf an imminent attack turn off the associated services and isolating the affected systems.

            Spoofing Attacks -  posign as something or someone else. mask threat incidencts as normal occurrences (valid data packet exchanges). Current spoofing methods are IP, ARP (adress resolution protocol), DNS.

            IP Spoofing - usiong the IP address of another computer. Appesrs data is being sent from a trusted source. Threat agents data packets appear light, intention of spoofing attempt. Exploit recieving users data processing routine. Infect systems, eventually the entire network. Prompt users to disclose sensitive information.

            ARP Spoofing - IP address to MAV address resolution. LAN hosts communicatie via MAC address. Threat agent communicates unnoticably, using vvictims MAC address, aka ARP poisoning instead of its own MAC address. Able to negotiate security settings. ACL rules, firewalls default 'deny all'

            DNS Spoofing - Domain name is forged. DNS server stores false record of web location. Redirects users intended destination. DNS Poisoning.
            
            On-Path Attack - Placement of device to listen in on communication between clients or clients and servers. Wireless netowrks are prone to 'war-driving' or use of an evil twin (rogue) router. Actively intercepts data to obtain vital information. Then allows traffic to continue on to its destination. Information gathered for later use. To gain network access remotely and attain more info.

            Password attacks - use of password crackers to gain access. repetitive attemtps usiong systematic approach. Brute force is repeated attempts to guess password, change pattern of characters untill successful. Dictionary guesses password using loist of common words, may be autonomated with vast availabilty of tools. Rainbow Tables - database containing hashed values of passwords when stored inthe operating system. Passwords can be found using rainbow tables, hashes are traced bakc to the original password that created a specific hash. Hybrid is brute force and dictionary combined attack.

            Insider Threat - internal organization incedent. Perpeduated by a disgruntled employee. Pilfers and discloses or sells company data. Considered a major crime as industrial espionage. Basis for corrective measures. Connection of unauthorized WAP. Unaware of compliance policy restriction. 

            SQL Injections Structured Query Language - targets SQL database, intent is to disrupt the service. Other malicious reason may be to steal data. Modified a valid URL with SQL escape codes. When entered on a browser as demonstrated 'DROP TABLE USERS' deletes teh users table, databaserunable to satisfy subsequent queries. Mediation - implement input validation guidance, screen tips appear as user clicks on data field. Reminds data-entry specialist to make valid entries. Referred to as sanitization.

            Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) - malicous script delivery methods. placing teh script on popular webpages. executes as the webpage loads onto users screen. Displays prompts  to phish visitors sensitive info. Also a lure device users to install malware. Browser security restrics direct access to the OS. 

    
    Exploits and Vulerabilites 
        Both are common ways to compromise systems.

        Differences
            Vulnerability is a security weakness (operating system may contain backdoors)
            Exploits are the means and techniques used to leverage a systems weakness using scripts, code, applications.

        Non-Compliant Systems 
            Systemsnot kept updated, unhardened OSs are prime targets of exploits, protective software unable to detect anonalies
            Uninstalled updates create vulnerabilities (unpatched holes or backdoors)
            Maintaining comliant systems with MECM. Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager. Establishes a systems baseline ,updated state. Monitors all OSs and compares them to the baseline. Remediates those systems that fall out of compliance.
            Third-party tools available, maintain compliance of third party applications.

        Patching and updates
            New installations fo operating systems. Not fully protected from malicious activity. Require complete update with available patches. Remediates recently discovered vulnerabilities upon being released to the market.
            Nesw Features may be included with major updates.
            Same for inital installation of applications. Updates may address compatibility issues. Vendors may include vulnerability patches.
            Network devices - update and patch before being placed into service.
            Maintenance - cyclic release of patches and updates. addresses security concerns. May improve functionality. Out of band patches distributed outside of normal releace sycles. to remediate critical vulnerabilities discovered.
            Distribution methods SOHO and consumer systems, Windows Update in the Settings App utility. Large business and corporate network, Windows Server Udate Services WSUS. Central administration of patches and updates. Provide administrators with compliance status report.

    
    Operating Systems Life Cyrptolocker
        Stages of use and Support - Upon release tothe market.
        End of Life  - cyclic updates and security patches, no longer supported by the vendor.
        Sustained support reccomendation - upgrade to currently supported version of OS. 

    Unprotected Systems
        Prone to infections and intrusion without antivirus and antimalware installed. Firewall disabled or misconfigured.
        Antivirus and antimalware software - prevents various system or performance issues. Restricts remote access.
        Firewall prohibit unauthorized connectivity.

    BYOD
        Organizational challenge to manage. Employes use personal devices to accomplish job-related tasks.
        Risks involving security of data
            Leakage - lose control of data. Device is misplace, stolen or hacked. Full device encryption mitigates this risk. Legal ramifications may emerge.
            Probabliity
            Data Portability - organizational data remains on personal device. When and employee is terminated or has l=resigned

        Line of Business (LOB) Application. Only displays data, does not store data on device. wipes all saved business data from device.


     Security Best Practices
        Data encryption - Prevents loss of controll of data. Bitlocker feature.
        Setting Strong Passwords - efffective and sage system measures. Educate and encourage
        Requiring Passwords - windows regects non-password access by default on networks, allows local access with Sign in button.
        Password Expiration - considered one-facrtoer authentication. Something you know can be compromised through shoulder surfing. chagne regularly.
        End-User Best Practices - Locking Screens, Logging off, Securing Equip/Info.
        Account Management
            Restricting user permissions - Assign bare minimum of permissions. Implement group permissions.
            Setting time restrictions - controls when users are allowed to login.
            Limiting number of failed login attempts - set in Account Lockout Policy. 3 is optimal, 5 allows time for users to remember.
            Changing default usernames - default administrator names are common knowledge like admin, root, or sysadmin.
            Disabling the guest account - targeted vulnerability when not enabled.
            Requiring Screen saver passwords - best practice for end-users. enforced through Group Policy. Prevents insider threat.
        Disable Autorun - inserting or attatching media of unknown content. Optical disks, CD,DVD, Blu-ray, USB flash drives thumb or extertnal drives. Autorun.inf 
        AutoPlay - automtic action or what should be done options. Enabled by default in Windows. 

    Destruction and Disposal Methods
        Recycling or Repurposing Best Practices
            Policy to destroy data prior to Disposal
            Guidelines for disposal of storage media
                Hard Disk Drives
                Optical Drives
                Backup Tapes
                Solid-State Devices

            Hard drive sanitization and sanitization methods
                Businesses storage of sensitive data. Encryption is a vital measure of data security. Storage devices must be sanitized.
                Sanitization of storage media - low level formatting of PATA disks (IDE hdd). scrubs data from SSD. Vendor SSD sanitization may not conform to military or GSA specigfications.
                OVERWRITE - utility which layers new data over existing data. writing and saving 0s. Several passes to hinder retrieval of old files. DBAN utility, uses boot media to bypass normal bootup load.
                Drive Wipe - for repurposing of storage media. devices does not contain sensitive proprietary data.

            Standard Format - a function of the OS. makes existing hard disk space available. existing files will be removed.

            Low-level Format - during manufacturing process. third party utilities may be used. will wipe desks clean.


        Physical Destruction - supplement to sanitation procedures. When uncertain if all content was removed.
            Hard Disk Shredders - procured for commercial service ($20k). Provides certificate of destruction as legal verification.
            Drill and Hammer - drill holes in disks. Deform drive enclosures, demolish controllers.
            Degaussing with an electromagnet - metallic hard disks are magnetic media. data is written adn read as magnetic flux. use of a strong magnetic field. initiates the surface of hard disks. A variation of disk wiping.
            Incineration - fire destruction considerations. implement all safety precautions.
            Certificate of Destruction - verify destruction of devices for auditing.
            Securing physical documents - may contain sensitive information.Prone to unauthorized disclosure (dumpster diving). Shredding best practice for prevention.