Securing Operating Systems
    Users and Groups
        Microsoft vs Local Accounts
            Microsof account - recommended for sign-in. Best for personal work on a home computer. Created during inital setup. Of a new Windows PC or installation of Windows. Use an email address, phone number or skype. Benefits are * Setup the OneDrive feature to store backups * Setting syncronization across all installed or attatched drives. Use of Microsoft Productivity tools. Microsoft store app ecosystem transactions.
            Local Account - for organizational use. Considered an off-line account (Windows operating system account). End users credentials are managed by the network administrator and grants access to network resources.
            Corporate email address - MDM software enrollment. Selected employees authorized to use personal devices. Under companys 'bring your own device" (BYOD) policy.
            Administrator account - there must be at least one local admin account. On every windows computer.

        Administrator
            Granted full control of operating system. Make minor changes up to uninstalling the Os. Member of the Administrators group. Sign in to standard user acocount for routine tasks and elevaet privileges when required to perform administrative tasks.

        Power Users
            Microsofts inital intent in Windows XP
            Junior administrators with limited admin rights. Manage files, install programs, change permissioins.
            Cant take ownership of files, change key OS files.
            Concept unfeasible with Visa, Windows 7,8/8.1 & 10.
            Only provides standrd user privileges
            Backward compatible with XP only.
        
        Guest
            Builst-in, with same rights as standart user.
            Allows temporary use of a computer. No Access to log files.
            Should remain disabled (default) if not used.

        Standard Users
            Member of the local Users group.
            Assigns read and write permissions.
            Allowed to use most installed applications.
            Cannot make major system changes.
            Specifically system-wide modifications to registry.
            Run program as adjihistrator, respond to UAC.
            If tasked to perform admninistrative task.

        Changing between account types
            Administrator privileges required to change from standard user to admin user
            Performed in the Control Panel
                User Accounts Applet
                    "Change Your Account" to standard user removes you from adminstrators group
                    "Manage Another Account" to add a user to another group

    Working With Windows OS Security Settings
        NTFS vs Share permissions
            NTFS - Affect entire file ssytem. Provide granular access control (individual files, folders & volumes). Protect files accessed by local users.
                Full control
                Modify
                Read & Execute
                List Folder Contentes
                Read
                write
            Share - Apply to network access of files or folders. Less granular than NTFS. Effective protection from remote users.
                Full Control
                Change
                Read

        Shared Files and Folders
        System Files and Folders
        User Authentification
        BitLocker
        EFS

    Allow - Enable use of a permission. Overruled by a conflicting Deny

    Deny - Disable use of a permission or multiple permissions. Blocks user access altogether.

    Effective permissions
        File Share access - incorporates share and NTFS permissions to determine overall permission for the share.

        Rule of Thumb
            Users with multiple group memebership.
            Involves multiple varying permissions
            The most permissive of both Groups
            Determines most restrictive as teh effective.

    Moving vs Copying
        MOVE - same content moved. nothing new created. Retains permissions. NTFS permissions, loses all permissions when moved FAT32, adds new permissions when moved from FAT32.

        COPY - new content created. original permissions lost. assumes permissions of the destination folder.

    Attributes
        Propeties of files and folders.
        Basic properties introduced in FAT - Read only, hidden, archive & system.
        Set (+) to enable Attributes
        Set (-) to enable or remove attributes.
        Currently used in NTFS. FAT used for backward compatibility.

    File and Folder Attributes
        Early FAT32 file Systems.
            Read-Only - prevents overwriting and deleting files.
            Hidden - hides files or folders to restrict access.
            System - critical operating system files.
            Archive - "marks files" that have changed after last backup. Backup software selects only files with their archive attribute turned on.
        
        NTFS
            Indexing - catalogs files for improved searches.
            Compresson - automatically compresses files and folders. Option to complress only new files and folders. Cannot be used along with encryption.
            Encryption - encodes plain text for security. Cannot be used along with compression.

        Standard Sharing
            Set with 'Give access to'....'Select people'.
            Choice with whom to share file or folder
                along with persons respective permissions.
            Procision of shared file or folder
                every group has full control permissions.
            Advanced Sharing 
                Properties dialog box of file or folder
                Allows granular setting of the share permissions assiciated with administrative-level access.
                NTFS security permissions
                    set from the security tab.
                Additional Options
                    add other share names tothe same location
                    limit number of simultaneous connections, add comments

    Administrative Shares vs Local Shares
        Administrative shares - for administrators only.
        Local Shares - accessible by standard users. may restrict access to users on seperarte segments (finance, HR).

        Administrative Shares
            Server-configured for admin use only. Restricts standard users from accessing contnet.
            $ indicates hiddden resource.

            Volumes - C$, D$
            System root - admin$
            Print drivers - print$

        Local Shares
            Created on indivicual local hosts. No administrative restrictions. Share indicator is a hand beneath shared item.

        Network Shares
            Mapped resources accessible from hosts desktop as if they are local.
            NET USE M:\\server-name\share-name - can also map drives in Disk Management.
            Printer shareing required to allow mapping of printers for newtwork access.

        Permissinon Inheritance vs Propagation
            Inheritance 
                Default throughouht permisson structure unless a specific setting overrides it.
                Permission removal cannot be accomplished unless inheritance is disabled.
            
            Disabled Inheritance
                Changes NTFS security Settings
                Prompted Options keep existing permissions - select the Convert Inherited Permissions to Explicit permissions on this object opetion.
                Start fresh from where no permissions are set - select the Remove All Permissions from this Object option.
                Start fresh from no permissions set - select the Remove All Permissions from this Object. Adverse effect of the selection above. Permission are also removed frm files stored within subfolders.
                To endsure propogation of inheritance/permissions - select Replace All Child Object Permission Entries with Inheritable Permission Entries from this Object.
            
            Files required for OS funciotnality
            Hidden attribute set by default
                must not be hidden/ prevents tampering by standard users.


        Local User Accounts
            Authenticates uset against the operating system though OS's security account manager same
            Allows access to local PC's resources granted with a local access token upon valid log-in.

        Active Directory
            Reduces administrative management tasks, facilitates user logon process for network access
            Valid logon grants access to domain resources through a Kerberos token aka, Global Unique ID GUID.

        Single Sign On
            Facilitates access to mulitple resources, servers and applications.
            Typically used with cloud-based services.
            Authentication process produces a claim. Claim contains AD attributes about user, sent to resources insterad of users credentials. resources trusts AD information is valis and grants user access.
            Privilege of use is carefully delegated.

    Administrator vs Standard User
        Authentication scheme
            Users access granted through least privilege unless escaleted privileges are required.
        User Account Control
            Prompts for administrative credentials, when system recognizes reconfiguratiohn attempt.
            Prevents unauthorized system changes.

    Windows Defender/Defender Firewall
    
    BitLocker Overview
        Purpose
            Encrypts entire drive - protects startup and login files against malifcious intrusion.

            Windows applicability - 10-Pro-Enterprise-Education. 8-Pro-Enterprise & 7 Enterprise-Ulitmate

            Trusted Platform Module - secures encryption key instead of placing it on the hard disk drive. Motherboard chip enhances use of BitLocker. Not required to use BitLocker. Stores BitLocker key insteadof on encrypted drive. Prevents out of band instrusion when removed and installed in another PC.

            Tamper resistant - senses attempts to crack encryption key, triggers reentry of recovery key.

            BitLocker-to-Go
                Encyrpts removable-media (external) devices.
                Same encryption technology for internal PC driives.
                Enable encryption to lock device when an external device is attatched.
                BitLocker Drive Encryption in Control Panel
                Unlock to access encrypted device, OS prompts for password used to decrypt device.
                
            Encrypting File System
                Allows encryption of single files or folders on an NTFS volume. Folder will appear green in the local drive tree.
                Certificate (key-pair) generation - local encryption. Operating system creates certificate. AD domain with CA (certificate of authority creates certificate).
                All users can encrypt files and folders - simultaneous  use with BitLocker, increases data security.

       Securing a SOHO Wireless Network
        Change default usernames and passwords
        Service-Set Identifier (SSID)
            Change the default, typically the model of the router.
            Disable the SSID Broadcast
        Setting Encryption
            Open is very unsecure
            WEP, WPA, WPA2, WPA3 provides security
            WPA3 uses CCMP-AES for strongest encryption
        Enable MAC filtering
            disabled by Default
            turn off DHCP
            reserve IP address for printers
        Antenna and Access Point Placement
            Layout of WlAN determines signal strength
                longer distances result in more signal attenuation.
                walls also absor RF signals
            Avoid overextending wireless signal
                prevents unauthorized access of WlAN
            Perform wireless surveys
                for optimum signal strength according to layout.
            Radio power levels
                adjust to retain adequate signal strength
                    recieved by all wireless clients
                    not extended beyond surveyed limits
                        prevents signal reception by other wireless devices
            Layout of WlAN
                should provide adequate coverate of power level.
            Reduce signal strength
                maintain connectivity throughout network
                prevent discovery by 'war driving'
            Consider eliminating wireless access to the location

        Assign static IP addresses
            disabling DHCP
            make it difficult for others to connect to the WLAN.
            IP address, subnet mask, default gateway and DNS server information - manually entered in IPv4 properties.

        WPS
            wifi protected setup
            simplified wireless configuration tools
            requires 2 devices to press button at the same time or 
            enter a PIN number instead of a password.

        Securing a SOHO Wired Network
            Change default Usernames and Passwords 
                After Installing new network device (routers/switches)
                Windows Guest Account - purposely disabled by default. High security risk when enabled for use. Create new account withguest membership (for use by hotel guests).

            Enable MAC filtering
                Limit access to network to devices withknown MAC addresses. Filter out all others
                Feature of most routers allow lsited MAC addresses/ deny MAC addresses listed.

            Assign Static IP addresses
                Avoid using DHCP service to assign addresses. Disable DHCP function on router or server. Prevents assignmetn of address to unauthorized device placed on the network.
                Increases administrative taks entering static address on each host in the NICsproperties dialog box.

            Disabling ports 
                Those not in use on network devices. Switch - prevents on-path attack
                Those easily accessible. Hosts - prevents unauthorized data retrieval (attachment of external storage devices).

            Physical Security
                Common cause of risk to data security. Leaving computer unatended while still signed in to user account
                Security features of Windows 10. NTFS. ACLs track security and assign acess type. Assigns appropriate user and group permisisons. Encrypts files stored on disk.
                Securing physical devices - prevents theft of laptops in public venues. Use a cable lock to secure it to an immovable object. Add a lock to the access-panel of desktop. Secure routers and switches in locked cabinets.

            Basic Security Principles
                Firewall Settings
                    Tweak defaults as needed. Persistent monitoring to refine security.
                Screened Subnet (DMZ) - separate segmetn wiht accessable hosts
                Port Forwarding - port mapping
                    configure in.out-bound traffic through individurally designated ports.
                Content filtering on domain networks.
                    Granular level of denying access to networks, site types, named sites.
                Parental Controls - used on home computers. Windows 10 Family Options.
                Update Firmware
                    ususlly designed to update automatically
                    patch vulnerabilities discovered after marketed (compatable with new tech)
                    various hardware associated with computers - wireless routers, graphic cards, hard drives.
                Manually upadate if not automatically 
                    download from manufacturers website.

        Moile Device Security
            Screen Locks
                Restricts access to owner of device
                Disabled by default
                Lock types - Biometric, password.

            Remote Wipes and Locator Applications 
                Locate lost devices. Apple - Find My iPhone. Android - Find my Decice
                Feature must be enabled & phone turned on to pinpoint devices location.
                Wipes all data from a stolen or lost device and prevents manipulation of private information.

            Remote Backup
                iOS - data backed up automatically - syncronization to computer using iTunes or iCloud account.
                Android - synchronizes data using third party app between google drive and phone/ tablet.

            Failed Login Attempts restrictions
                Supplemental security settings - automatic device wipe or factory Reset
                Recommended only for business devices where backups are performed routinely.
                Similar concepts on iOS. Disable the Erase Data feature. If correct unlock code cannot be remembered connect to computer.
                Similar concepts on Android. Reverts to factory setting after 10 tries. If it fails use the PC to log into account and set up device.

            Viruses and Malware on Mobile Devices
                Prone to malware and virus infections despite computers being the main focus of attacks.
                Malware affects - spam ads, expose PII, and remotely control device.
                Virus affects - exploit email to replicate to other devices.
                Antivirus and anti-malware are important requirements.
                Trusted sources - Google Play Store/App Store. Apps distributed form other sources should be avoided. Android .APK | Apple .IPA 
                Operating System Updates - always update. Apple is closed but Android is open source coding. 
                Full Device Encryption - Laptops, smartphones, tablets, external drives/ flash drives. Prevents access of stored content. Cracked password may expose stored data but data cannot be read in encoded state.
                Multifactor Authentication - Something you know PASSWORD/PIN. Something you have RFID/TOKEN, Something you are BIOMETRICS.
                Authenticator Applicaitons - generate codes to source accounts. Uses 2FA, code from the app + password.
                Firewalls - IP addresses are assigned to mobile devices susceptible to exploit via cellular or wifi. Inbound and outbound traffic monitoring by apps.
                Policies and Procedures - protects the environment. Helps determine what is acceptable. Should be well written. Users must be trained in policies and procedures.

                BYOD vs Corporate Owned
                    Bring Your Own Device - policy establishes guidelines of useing personal devices for work. MDM enforces BYOD compliance to protect company data.

                    Corporate Owned - Acceptable use policy. MDM tracks devices for accountability. User must be aware of tracking policy.

                    Profile security requirements - component of MDM. Allows uniform management processese, enforce settings for entire organization, enforce settings by organizational groups, enforce settings for encryption and password complexity.